So now that we've
had a chance to talk
about the ImageStreamGang
app and give you
a sense of its overall
behavior, give you
a sense of the
patterns that are used,
talk about some techniques
for learning its behavior,
and learning how its
functionality works,
let's spend a little time
talking about its structure
and functionality
in more detail.
And in particular,
we're going to focus
on the integration of
object-oriented paradigm
concepts and functional
programming paradigm concepts.
And I think-- I hope--
that you'll come away
with this discussion with a good
understanding of the synergies
that exist between
object-oriented and functional
programming.
Sometimes people like
to pretend that these
are disjoint
programming paradigms,
and never the twain shall meet.
And I think that's always
been a very misplaced sort
of purist view.
But with languages that are
hybrid languages, like Java 8
and beyond, it really
makes no sense.
Because you might
as well get the best
of these different worlds,
and combine them together
in very effective ways.
So let's first start by taking
a bird's-eye view of the overall
structure of the
ImageStreamGang app.
And this is a UML class
diagram, that kind of
shows the key classes
that are defined here.
And you can see
just from a glance
that the overall
structure of this app
uses object-oriented design.
So we've got classes.
We've got interfaces.
We've got inheritance.
We've got composition.
We've got nesting, all these
good object-oriented kinds
of things.
Now, the classes that we're
going to look at, of course,
are going to apply a whole
pile of different Java
features, some object-oriented,
some functional, in order
to enable efficient and
scalable image downloading
and processing.
At the core of this
is something called
the StreamGang class,
which is basically
the root of a framework
for initiating
streams that will process
input from a list of elements.
And I use the StreamGang for
a bunch of different thing.
The SearchStreamGang case
study used StreamGang.
The ImageStreamGang
study uses StreamGang.
Various things use
the StreamGang base
class and the overall
paradigm it provides.
In this particular
case, we then have
something that we call
the ImageStreamGang
class that extends StreamGang.
It adds some other
specific behaviors
that customize it, and
customizes StreamGang framework
to download and process images,
which is what we're doing here.
From there, we then have a bunch
of different implementations
that extend StreamGang,
or ImageStreamGang,
and provide various concurrency
and parallelism exemplars
or strategies.
So as we'll see here, we have
a sequential version, which
we're not going to focus on.
It just does everything
sequentially using a stream.
We have a parallel
streams version,
which is what we're
going to focus
on now, of course, the
download and filter
the images in parallel.
And then we've also got a
couple of CompletableFutures
implementations that'll
download and filter
the images asynchronously.
And we're going to
cover one of these
later when we talk about the
CompletableFutures framework.
So it'll be kind
of fun, because you
get a chance to
compare and contrast
the parallel streams
implementation, which we're
going to cover now, with one
of the CompletableFutures
implementations that we're
going to cover later.
There's also a class that is
used to store image metadata
and provide methods for common
image and file-related tasks.
We use that in conjunction
with the class hierarchy
that applies the decorator
pattern to filter and store
the images.
You can have different
kinds of filters
to transform the images,
like a grayscale filter
or an embossed filter or a
sharpened filter or whatnot.
And then there's also
a bunch of classes
that provide the user
interface for an Android
version of this app.
And there's also a
Java console version
of this app that shares
99% percent of the code.
So almost all the code is
identical between Android
and Java.
And just the parts that
deal with the user interface
are kind of moved often
and have to be distinct.
But most of the stuff is shared.
Now, I'm not going to run
the ImageStreamGang app.
It's easy to run.
But if you were
to run it, and you
were to look at its performance,
especially for the command line
version, which really is there
largely to do benchmarking--
the Android version
actually is cool,
and you can do interesting
things with its user interface.
But the command line
version is basically there
just to download files
and tell you how fast they
downloaded and processed.
So if you were to
do this, you would
see the following results.
And in this
particular case, I ran
this on my 6-core
Lenovo Windows laptop,
which has 64 gigabytes of RAM.
And I have two different
sources of input.
One has a bunch of large
files that it downloads.
And one has a bunch of smaller
And as you can see
here, in all the cases,
whether they're big
files or small files,
the CompletableFutures
implementation
runs the fastest.
Now, different
CompletableFutures
implementations
perform differently,
based on whether they're
big files or small files.
But they always outperform
parallel streams.
Parallel streams performs
well, but not as well
as CompletableFutures.
And of course, parallel streams
and CompletableFutures all
perform better than
the sequential version
of this stuff.
But unlike the
version we looked at
before, unlike the
SearchStreamGang case
study, where we
really saw linear
or super linear
performance speed up,
you'll notice here that we
don't get quite the speedup.
Here, I've got this 6-core
processor with hyperthreading.
So it's got 12 effective
cores, or 12 virtual cores.
You can see that the
difference in performance
between, say, the
sequential stream
and the CompletableFutures
is really a factor of 3,
not a factor of 6.
And that holds pretty
much also for both
of these implementations.
Why is that?
Well, the main reason is
that this implementation
is an I/O bound solution.
It has to go out to the network.
It has to download the images.
It has to process the images.
It has to store
the images on disk.
And so you are not going to have
the wonderful embarrassingly
parallel benefits we saw
with the SearchStreamGang
solution, which didn't have any
of those I/O bound properties.
They're all compute bound.
So they're just running as fast
as the CPU will let them go.
And there's very little
blocking and very little
impeding the parallels--
the extreme embarrassingly
parallel performance speedup
with the SearchStreamGang
solution.
But in this solution,
there's other things
that are going on, like
networking overhead and file
system, I/O, and so on.
So it's just going to be a
little bit less scalable.
But as you can see,
parallelism still comes along
and helps to improve things
pretty substantially.